[Music]
in the second age of middle earth
the lords of elves dwarves and men
are given rings of power unbeknownst to
them
the dark lord sauron forges the one ring
in mount doom instilling into it a great
part of his power
in order to dominate the other rings so
he might conquer middle earth
a final alliance of men and elves
battles sauron's forces
in mordor isildur of gondor
severs sauron's finger and the ring with
it thereby destroying his physical form
with sauron's defeat the third age of
middle earth begins
the ring's influence corrupts isildur
who takes it for himself
isildur is later killed by orcs and the
ring is lost for 2500 years
until it is found by gollum who owns it
for five centuries
the ring is then found by a hobbit named
bilbo baggins
who was unaware of its history sixty
years later
bilbo celebrates his 111th birthday in
the shire
reuniting with his old friend the wizard
gandalf the gray
bilbo reveals that he intends to leave
the shire for one last adventure
and he leaves his inheritance including
the ring to his nephew
frodo gandalf investigates the ring
discovers its true nature and learns
that gollum was captured and tortured by
sauron's orcs
uttering two words during his
interrogation shire
and beggins gandalf returns and
warns frodo to leave the shire as frodo
departs with
his friend gardener samwise gamji
gandalf rides to isengard
to meet with the wizard saruman but
gandalf learns that saruman has joined
forces with sauron
who has dispatched his nine undead
nazgul
to find frodo frodo and sam are joined
by fellow hobbits
mary and pippen and they evade the
nazgul
before arriving in brie where they are
meant to meet gandalf
however gandalf never arrives having
been taken prisoner by saruman
the hobbits are then aided by a ranger
named strider
who promises to escort them to rivendell
however
they are ambushed by the nazgul and
their leader the witch king
stabs frodo with a mortal blade arwen
an elf and striders betrothed rescues
frodo
summoning flood waters that sweep the
nazgul away
she takes him to rivendell where he is
healed frodo meets gandalf
who escaped eisenguard with help from
the great eagle
that night strider reunites with arwen
and they confirm their love for each
other
arwin's father lord elrond holds a
council that decides the ring must be
destroyed in mount doom
frodo volunteers to take the ring
accompanied by gandalf
sam mary pippen legolas
gimli boromir of gondor
and strider who is revealed to be
aragorn
a silder's heir and the rightful king of
gondor
bilbo now living in rivendell gives
frodo his sword
sting the fellowship of the ring sets
off over a tall mountain
but saruman summons a storm that forces
them to travel through the mines of
morya
after finding all of the dwarves of
morya have been slain
the fellowship are attacked by orcs and
a cave troll
they hold them off but are confronted by
durian's bane
a balrog residing within the mines
gandalf casts the balrog into a vast
chasm
but it drags him down into the darkness
the devastated fellowship
reaches lothlorien ruled by the elf
queen
galadriel and her husband keller born
galadriel privately informs frodo that
only he can complete the quest and that
one of his friends will try to take the
ring
meanwhile saruman creates an army of
urakai
to track down and kill the fellowship
the fellowship continues their travel by
river
frodo wanders off and is confronted by
boromir who tries to take the ring
the fellowship is then ambushed by the
urakai mary
and pippen are taken captive and boromir
is mortally wounded by the urak
chieftain
lurtz aragorn arrives kills lurtz
and watches boromir die afraid of the
ring corrupting his friends
frodo decides to travel to mordor alone
but then reconsiders by allowing sam to
come
after hearing his promise from gandalf
aragorn
legolas and gimli decide to rescue mary
and pippen